Add `@testing-library/user-event` to the project (#39360)
WordPress/gutenberg: docs/contributors/code/testing-overview.md

} );
```

### User interactions

Simulating user interactions is a great way to **write tests from the user's perspective**, and therefore avoid testing implementation details.

When writing tests with Testing Library, there are two main alternatives for simulating user interactions:

1. The [`fireEvent`](https://testing-library.com/docs/dom-testing-library/api-events/#fireevent) API, a utility for firing DOM events part of the Testing Library core API.
2. The [`user-event`](https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro/) library, a companion library to Testing Library that simulates user interactions by dispatching the events that would happen if the interaction took place in a browser.

The built-in `fireEvent` is a utility for dispatching DOM events. It dispatches exactly the events that are described in the test spec - even if those exact events never had been dispatched in a real interaction in a browser.

On the other hand, the `user-event` library exposes higher-level methods (e.g. `type`, `selectOptions`, `clear`, `doubleClick`...), that dispatch events like they would happen if a user interacted with the document, and take care of any react-specific quirks.

> For the above reasons, **the `user-event` library is the recommended way to simulate user events when writing tests**.

Reviewer: Mainly I think `to simulate user events` should be `to simulate user interactions` but I think it might be a minor improvement as:
```suggestion
For the above reasons, **the `user-event` library is recommended when writing tests for user interactions**.
```

```javascript
import { render, screen } from '@testing-library/react';

test( 'fires onChange when a new value is typed', () => {
	const spyOnChange = jest.fn();

	// A component with one `input` and one `select`.
	render( <MyComponent onChange={ spyOnChange } /> );

	const input = screen.getByRole( 'textbox' );
	input.focus();
	// No clicks, no key events.
	fireEvent.change( input, { target: { value: 62 } } );

	// The `onChange` callback gets called once with '62' as the argument.
	expect( spyOnChange ).toHaveBeenCalledTimes( 1 );

	const select = screen.getByRole( 'listbox' );
	select.focus();
	// No pointer events dispatched.
	fireEvent.change( select, { target: { value: 'optionValue' } } );

	// ...
```

**Good**: using `user-event` to simulate user events.

```javascript

import { render, screen } from '@testing-library/react';
import userEvent from '@testing-library/user-event';

test('fires onChange when a new value is typed', async () => {
	const user = userEvent.setup();

	const spyOnChange = jest.fn();

	// A component with one `input` and one `select`.
	render( <MyComponent onChange={ spyOnChange } /> );

	const input = screen.getByRole( 'textbox' );

> 	// Focus element, select all contents, delete contents as per browser menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// Focus the element, select and delete all its contents.
```
Mainly to add the period. I noticed `as per browser menu` is in their docs but seems meaningless to me. The [`clear`](https://github.com/testing-library/user-event/blob/beta/src/utility/clear.ts) function doesn't somehow invoke a browser menu.

	await user.clear( input );

> 	// Click the element, type each characted separately (generating keydown,
> 	// keypress and keyup events), release all pressed key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// Click the element, type each character separately (generating keydown,
	// keypress and keyup events).
```
Typo and it seems like `, release all pressed keys` is redundant.

	await user.type( input, '62' );

	// The `onChange` callback gets called 3 times with the following arguments:
	// - 1: clear ('')
	// - 2: '6'
	// - 3: '62'
	expect( spyOnChange ).toHaveBeenCalledTimes( 3 );

	const select = screen.getByRole( 'listbox' );

> 	// Focus, pointer events, change events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// Dispatches events for focus, pointer, mouse, click and change.
```
Mainly to add the period. It also seems like mention of the additional events is largely the point of the comparison.

1. The [`fireEvent`](https://testing-library.com/docs/dom-testing-library/api-events/#fireevent) API, a utility for firing DOM events part of the Testing Library core API.
2. The [`user-event`](https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro/) library, a companion library to Testing Library that simulates user interactions by dispatching the events that would happen if the interaction took place in a browser.

The built-in `fireEvent` is a utility for dispatching DOM events. It dispatches exactly the events that are described in the test spec - even if those exact events never had been dispatched in a real interaction in a browser.

On the other hand, the `user-event` library exposes higher-level methods (e.g. `type`, `selectOptions`, `clear`, `doubleClick`...), that dispatch events like they would happen if a user interacted with the document, and take care of any react-specific quirks.

For the above reasons, **the `user-event` library is the recommended way to simulate user events when writing tests**.

**Not so good**: using `fireEvent` to dispatch DOM events.

```javascript
import { render, screen } from '@testing-library/react';

> test('fires onChange when a new value is typed', () => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
test( 'fires onChange when a new value is typed', () => {
```

	const spyOnChange = jest.fn();

	// A component with one `input` and one `select`.

> 	const { user } = render(<MyComponent onChange={spyOnChange} />)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	render( <MyComponent onChange={ spyOnChange } /> );
```

We need a prettier/eslint for code snippets in markdown 😂

	const input = screen.getByRole( 'textbox' );
	input.focus();
	// No clicks, no key events.
	fireEvent.change( input, { target: { value: 62 } } );

	// The `onChange` callback gets called once with '62' as the argument.

> 	expect( setState ).toHaveBeenCalledTimes( 1 );

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	expect( spyOnChange ).toHaveBeenCalledTimes( 1 );
```

	const select = screen.getByRole( 'listbox' );
	select.focus();
	// No pointer events dispatched.
	fireEvent.change( select, { target: { value: 'optionValue' } } );

	// ...
```

**Good**: using `user-event` to simulate user events.

```javascript

import { render as RTLrender, screen } from '@testing-library/react';
import userEvent from '@testing-library/user-event';

function render(jsx) {
	return {
		user: userEvent.setup(),
		...RTLrender(jsx),
	}

> }

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I think I prefer the inlined version (`const user = userEvent.setup()`) instead of this setup abstraction... 🤔 It's just one line, and I kind of find it more simple and self-explanatory. What do you think? Maybe some idioms will emerge once v14 gets widespread adoption.

https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro#writing-tests-with-userevent

Author: I personally didn't mind the extra abstraction to keep the test shorter, but I also understand why it would be better to keep the setup code more explicit (easier to understand, only instantiated when necessary...)

I've applied your suggestions in https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/39360/commits/8afd1d08fa88d6e85d0f195bae1c236c28712979

test('fires onChange when a new value is typed', async () => {
	const spyOnChange = jest.fn();

	// A component with one `input` and one `select`.

> 	const { user } = render(<MyComponent onChange={spyOnChange} />)

Author: ```suggestion
	const { user } = render( <MyComponent onChange={ spyOnChange } /> );
```

	const input = screen.getByRole( 'textbox' );
	// Focus element, select all contents, delete contents as per browser menu
	await user.clear( input );
	// Click the element, type each characted separately (generating keydown,
	// keypress and keyup events), release all pressed key.
	await user.type( input, '62' );

	// The `onChange` callback gets called 3 times with the following arguments:
	// - 1: clear ('')
	// - 2: '6'
	// - 3: '62'

> 	expect( setState ).toHaveBeenCalledTimes( 3 );

Author: ```suggestion
	expect( spyOnChange ).toHaveBeenCalledTimes( 3 );
```
